---
title: Masochism and the Road Less Traveled
---

The path of least resistance. What an interesting thing. Water, electricity, basically everything takes it… so why can’t I?

From Merriam-Webster:  
 **Masochism** – *enjoyment of pain : pleasure*  
 *that someone gets from being abused or hurt.*

Being diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder has been an interesting ride. Some days I feel like I can manage it better than others (I guess that’s part of the gig, right?). It definitely forced me to reconsider my career choice. I had struggled for years in determining what I wanted to do. I often bounced between being a nurse and working in the IT field. I even considered working in the healthcare IT field, but eventually came to the conclusion that I wanted to be solely in the medical field. As I was working through my pre-nursing classes I had the opportunity to travel to Brazil and spend a week traveling down the Rio Negro on a hospital boat aiding and learning from two surgeons and some nurses in treating various remote villages. It was a life changing experience in so many ways. I knew I didn’t just want to be a nurse, I wanted to be a doctor. But as my history has proven, I was a little indecisive. I continued my pre-nursing classes and when the time came to apply to nursing school I was not accepted (The school I was applying to had a very backwards admissions criteria – on paper I was a solid candidate. It was **very** backwards). But I took not being accepted as a definitive sign that medical school was where I was supposed to be.

So I transferred to the University of Central Florida and started taking classes in the College of Medicine’s School of Biomedical Sciences. Unfortunately, my bipolar disorder began to really flare up and it caused me to very heavily reconsider my choice to be a doctor – medical school doesn’t play too nice with the inability to get out of bed for days or sleep for days (give or take). So I spun… out of control for a while. I eventually landed on my feet – in the College of Sciences, School of Psychology. The plan – earn my bachelor’s degree in psychology and then go to graduate school to earn my Doctorate of Psychology and practice clinically… practice what you may ask? I don’t know; which isn’t a problem. But there was a nagging. And for a while I didn’t care – I could get my medical fix with the beloved Dr. Gregory House and the worst written show on TV – Grey’s Anatomy (Seriously, the writing is SO FREAKING AWFUL… WHY CAN’T I STOP WATCHING?!?). As it turns out, fictional TV, awesome shows or otherwise, can’t fulfill real life. And after a while I realized that I want to be a doctor… of medicine. Very badly. Even though becoming a doctor will likely be the *hardest* thing I will ever do, I want it, more than anything. Just being in (or even near) a hospital invigorates me – it’s a rush of life that I can’t describe – it isn’t mania, it’s so much better than that.

But it’s not all sunshine and oranges (I’m a Floridian, it fits). Getting to the point of those two wonderful letters – M.D. – is a long road for even the healthiest of persons. And let’s be honest, Type 1 Bipolar Disorder means I’m a long way from healthy. It reminds me of a poem I once read in high school (my English would be so proud to know I **did** take something out of those classes – it just *looked* like I was sleeping). Robert Frost’s “[The Road Not Taken](http://www.poetryfoundation.org/poem/173536 "The Road Not Taken").”

I’ll leave you with this thought; what is it that you want most in this life? What are you doing to obtain it? I know what I want most – and I know that to get it, I will hurt; a lot. I will struggle, I will want to quit, I will be pushed to the edge but I know that if I don’t take that road, I will be selling myself short. Funny thing, that road is certainly not the path of least resistance and will certainly cause me massive amounts of pain – and I can’t imagine life any other way.
